Textbook Price Aggregator
=========================

Saving Students Time and Money
------------------------------

S.W.A.T. - SECRETLY WATCHING ALL TEXTBOOKS

Andre Wiggins, Andrew Stewart, Jacob Marsh

2/18/2011


We would like to design a website that aggregates the price of textbooks from 
online retailers such as Half.com and Amazon.com. However we will allow users 
to input their course schedule and we will display the appropriate textbooks 
for their classes.
 
Executive Summary
=================
Our product -- a web-technology -- will search a number of websites for the 
inputed textbooks, and display a list that is sorted by price in hopes of 
providing easier access to the cheaper alternatives available. 

Many college students spend hundreds of dollars each semester on textbooks due 
to their lack of knowledge of feasible alternatives to the campus bookstore 
which for many books charges significantly more, even for used books, than 
other online merchants charge. Currently existing products lack the ability to 
obtain book lists when given a list of classes, which will be a big selling 
point of our product. Simply having a choice on what price to pay and what 
quality book to purchase will make a big difference as most students are not 
aware of any alternatives. 

Our product will enable students to spend the money saved from textbooks on 
other items they were forced to forgo due to the exorbitant price charged by 
the bookstore.

Vision
======
Currently the only options students have for purchasing textbooks are paying 
excessive amounts at the bookstore, or spending large amounts of time searching 
online for a better price. We hope to have our product help save both time and 
money by automating the search process by aggregating prices from many online 
retailers and allowing users to input course schedules and by sorting the books 
by price to help get the best deal in as much time as it would take to go buy 
the book from the bookstore in person.

Gap in market
=============
Currently many students purchase their textbooks through the university, either 
online or at the bookstore. While readily available to all students, buying 
textbooks through the university is problematic due to high costs and the 
possibility of the needed book being out of stock. Our product addresses both 
of these issues: by aggregating many different websites it is unlikely a book 
will simply be unavailable and if the book is available for significantly less 
than through the university, that price will be found.

Also, few online retailers allow users to input their schedules to see the 
books they need. Our product will allow university students to do this, making 
it easier for students to find the books they need.

Meeting market needs
====================
Many students are strapped for time and money, so saving both time and money 
while purchasing textbooks, a necessary evil for obtaining a college education, 
would surely make a college student happy. By collecting textbook listings from 
many sites, our product provides a larger audience of sellers helping ensure we 
find the cheapest prices for any book.

Implementation
==============
Required market capitalization for the startup process is relatively low as a 
result of relying on open-source development tools for developing the web-based 
textbook aggregator system.  Initial over-head will stem from server and 
bandwidth costs.

Financial gain can be pursued by marketing to companies that share a target 
consumer base and offering advertising space on our company website.  Revenue 
can also be generated by an artificial inflation on the price of books 
(augmenting price by a couple of cents).

The Problem
===========
The main dilemmas with purchasing textbooks stems from a lack of technology 
that consolidates textbook prices from multiple retailers or merchants so that 
an end-user can efficiently compare the prices of products with the aim of 
saving money.  

Selling books is also important; however, there is a lack of resources that 
provide an outlet for this to happen.  Most currently, systems in place do not 
necessarily focus on a specific target consumer, a university student, and 
therefore may not provide the most advantageous options for conducting 
electronic sales in their interests.

Too, an effective way to market such a tool could be problematic as there may 
be little incentive for a retailer or merchant to have users avoid their 
technology offered via their website for product searches. 

Solution
========
The proposed solution seeks to aggregate the selling of textbooks with the aim 
of benefiting the retailer/seller, benefiting the end-user through efficiency 
gained through searches, saving time from price comparisons, and saving money 
by enabling the user to quickly identify the least costly option.  Furthermore, 
the implementation of such a tool requires little overhead in terms of cost in 
implementation.

Moreover, monetization of the product could be achieved by artificially 
inflating the price by a nominal amount and purchasing directly through a 
retailer/seller.  Too, offering advertising to companies that share the same 
target consumer can forge partnerships as a source of revenue.

Industry Need for Technology
============================
Cheap textbooks are usually always sought for by students and non-students 
alike.  There is a niche for our product to fill based on a reliable demand by 
students of Universities; furthermore, the automation for web crawling retailer 
websites and University websites streamlines the process of finding the most 
advantageous deals or competitive prices for desired textbooks.

Market Analysis
===============
The chief competitor in this area of textbook aggregation is www.campusbooks.com; 

In addition to consolidating textbook prices across websites that sell 
textbooks, it effectively allows for price comparisons; too, it provides for 
market creation by users to act as merchants and sell their textbooks.  Also, 
the ability to narrowly focus on renting textbooks is available as well.  

This market remains a stable, viable option for possible investors as the 
demand for textbooks will always be present as a result of universities.

Primary Market
==============
The focus audience is University students with the aim of saving them money; 
however, a partnership can be had for advertisers with similar target consumers 
to use our product as a vehicle with the aim of attracting possible users to 
their products.

Market size
===========
Our market applies to all college students in the United States. According to 
the Census Bureau, in 2009 there were over 16 million college students  
enrolled in universities around the country. Almost every one of these students 
is required to buy textbooks for the classes they are enrolled in. Our website 
will be available to any of these students that have an Internet connection.

Competition
===========
There are 3 classifications of competitors: core competency competitors, 
textbook competitors, and popular competitors.

-   Core Competency Competitors
    
    These competitors are companies that offer similar services that our 
    website will offer; however none of these competitors combine the service 
    of aggregating textbook prices and allowing users to input course schedules 
    like our website will.
    
    -   Campusbooks.com
        
        Aggregates the prices of textbooks from other online retailers
        
    -   ChimesTextBookExchange.com

        Allows users to input courses and sells appropriate textbooks from 
        their store

    -   CoopBookstore.com

        Allows users to input courses and sells appropriate textbooks from 
        their store

-   Textbook competitors

    Revenue can be generated by inflating the price of textbooks when bought 
    through our site. Therefore sites that sell textbooks such as the ones 
    listed below become competitors.

    -   Chegg.com

        A textbook renting site

    -   Textbooks.com

        A site that sells and rents new and used textbooks and allows users to 
        sell their own textbooks 

    -   eCampus.com

        A site similar to Textbooks.com but allows users to also rent an 
        eTextbook (electronic copy of a textbook).

-   Popular Competitors
    
    These competitors are online stores that do not specialize in textbook 
    sales yet students often buy textbooks from these sites.
    
    -   Amazon.com
    -   Half.com
    -   Ebay.com

Marketing strategies
====================
Our website plans to potentially generate revenue from advertising on our site, 
and/or by allowing users to buy textbooks directly from our website for a small 
fee. The incentive to buy textbooks from our website is that it is one easy, 
convenient location to compare prices on textbooks -- achieved by simply 
entering in your course schedule. Our website will expand by including more 
universities with this option of inputting course schedules.

Developing strategy
===================
An Agile Development Model will be employed for software design and engineering 
as the development team is small with three members.  Additionally, emphasis 
will be placed on an iterative and incremental development process due to the 
theoretically small size of the software project.

Barriers
========
Some of the barriers to entering into the textbook market will be:

-   Marketing Costs
-   Consumer Recognition
-   Competition from established firms
